---
title: Access Settings
brief: Setting journal locations (network and local)
taxonomy:
  category: docs
docroot: /jv2/docs
header_class: alt
---

### Set/ Clear local journal source (1)

The location from which to acquire journal data. The application uses this data to configure instrument and cycle selections and populate the table view. By default no local source is set and the files are accessed from data.isis.rl.ac.uk. The application will also look here in the event of issues with the set source.

If using network data every 30 seconds the application checks for any new cycles or changes in the current journal file. The shortcut Ctrl-R manually causes an update check.

### Set / Clear nexus archive location (2)

The location from which to acquire nexus data. The application uses this data to locate the mounted data archive* to access and display nexus data. If no source is set the application assumes an OS based default (i.e //ISISdata/inst$ for windows machines on site)

### Save/ Reset column state (3)

Saving a column state will save the selected visible columns and their order as the default for the current instrument. If no preferences are set there is a set of default visible columns for all instruments.



*For Windows machines on the STFC network it should be sufficient to use \\isis\inst$ as the Data Directory, provided the current user is authenticated with a suitable federal ID. For OSX machines it is necessary to first mount the correct Windows share:

1. From the Finder tool select **Go&#8594;Connect to Server**
2. Enter `smb://isis/inst$` as the **Location**
3. Click **Connect** and you will be prompted for your federal ID and password
4. Once successfully authorised the data should be accessible through `\\Volumes\\isis$`
5. In **JournalViewer**'s settings, enter `\\Volumes\\isis$` as the **Nexus Archive location**

For Linux systems the process is similar, but the variety present within the available distributions makes a comprehensive guide impossible. From the command line the procedure is as follows on an OpenSuSE 13.1 system:

1. As root, create a directory mount point for the Windows share, e.g. `/isisdata`
2. As root, mount the Windows share with the following command, replacing `abc12345` with your federal ID:

```
bob@pc:~> mount -t cifs //isisdata/inst$ -o "user=abc12345,sec=ntlm" /isisdata
```

3. Enter the password associated to your federal ID
4. In **JournalViewer**'s settings, enter `/isisdata` as the **Nexus Archive location**